H Mahmud is in KH yunes in the southern
Gaza Strip Han we can share with our
viewers latest pictures that are coming
into us which are once again because
this is not the first time this is
happening and that we're seeing this
people fleeing along Salah alen road
which as a reminder is one of the two
main roads north to south axis that runs
through Gaza Palestinians fleeing
through that road and being
targeted what do you know about this
particular incident what kind of context
can you provide around
this
yes yes well within the past 45 minutes
a sharp warning a threatening tone on
Israeli radio the Israeli military radio
ordering people of residents of Eastern
Han unun and the resident of d That's
the central part of the Gaza Strip to
evacuate immediately leaving that
particular area both areas Eastern kanun
and as they become a military zone war
zone according to the announcement on
the Israeli radio people started to move
out of these two areas now the residents
of Dar were ordered to take a Rashid
Road the coastal Road that's the western
side of the Gaza Strip as a a a safe
Corridor for them to head further south
to Rafa City people at the Eastern side
of hanun are ordered to take Salah road
now here's the the problem people who
did not get the massage or were not sure
where to go took Salah road while at the
same time Israeli tanks have
been stationing there for quite a while
and shooting at every moving object they
we know they have effectively separated
the central part from the southern part
from the city of kanun particular those
were coming
from Tak Salah Road were shot at and and
as far as we know from the reports we
got there were car carrying civilians
moving
from on Salah Road was targeted and we
we need to confirm how many people were
in the car and if they were killed or
they were only injured but tanks are
positioned on that road targeting at
every moving object here the the story
is a little bit different the remaining
part of Salah Road has been damaged
severely damaged so people coming from a
resident coming from Eastern side of Kan
taking Salah road to RAF City find it
very challenging as they cannot drive
their cars the roads are severely
damaged the the end up walking and not
not not not light walking they they walk
with their families and and children and
and women and it take without carrying
any of their belongings because they
want to get there as soon as they as
they can before the bombardment start
and this is the difficulty of the
situation now on both Road the coastal
road now and Salah Road from kanun side
reports talk about tens of Palestinians
are taking the roads within the pass 4 5
minutes heading to uh uh to ra further
southern part of the Gaza is strip so
far a a it it has been very very tough
for for people since early mornings of
uh since early hours of this morning and
as all of this is happening while air
strikes Relentless air strikes targeting
more residential homes and and splitting
the Gaza Strip particularly the southern
part into two parts making it difficult
not only for movement but for also for
for people who are who feel stranded
they they are caught off from the rest
of the of the Gaza Strip Han Mahmud
reporting there from Kan Yunis in the
southern part of the Gaza Strip Han
thank you very much for the latest
reporting now alzer's Imran Khan is in
Tel Aviv Imran what is Israel saying
about how it is conducting its current
operations in Gaza and specifically is
there any mention of limiting civilian
casualties in this days of the
war well I'll ask that question in just
a moment but in the last few moments
we've just heard a very loud explosion
in the east of Tel Aviv where I'm where
I am the indone rocket defense system is
actually gone into action we can just
see the smoke uh just behind me um might
not be able to see it right now because
it's actually disappearing um we'll get
you more details on that as soon as we
get them but sirens were also heard now
limiting civilian casualties that's
always been something the Americans have
been pushing very clearly but Israel has
also been incredibly clear as well it
will conduct this war in the way it sees
fit now there have been uh what the most
analysts are calling lip service being
paid to civilian casualties there is
this map that the Israelis have issued
which divides Gaza the entire strip into
blocks uh and those blocks are said to
uh contain um houses where people or
places where people can actually move to
if their block gets attacked but most
analysts say that is something aimed at
the Americans not at the Palestinians
living in Gaza they've also been talking
about the south of the country now this
is a very key element because uh the
Israeli Army Chief actually turned
around on yesterday and said we will go
into the South with the same kind of
intensity as we did in the north that's
something the Americans simply didn't
want us Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin was also clear when he was here
he said you cannot go into the South
with that kind of intensity now there is
another delegation that's in town at the
moment it's a White House delegation um
it's coming from kamla Harris's office
her security advisor Phil Gordon H is in
town he wants to discuss the day after
he's echoing words that we heard the
vice president Cala Harris talk about in
Dubai there's tremendous amount of
pressure now from the Americans not just
to think about the military oper ation
that's going on right now but they want
the Israelis to think about the day
after and they're very clear as well no
reoccupation of Gaza no displacement of
Gaza and limiting civilian casualties
but we don't know how much influence
they're going to have on the Israelis
the Israelis have been very clear and
just very quickly before I wrap up on
this particular Point there's some very
interesting analysis going on in Israeli
media that prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is readying himself uh to
blame the Americans in case this all
fails for not letting him fight the war
in the way he saw fit he's already uh
leaking to uh various trusted
journalists he has within the Israeli
media saying that the Americans are
limiting him oh that is really
interesting you'll continue to follow
that anything new in in that space
you'll you'll let us know Imran where is
public opinion in Israel right now on
continuing the war what we're seeing now
on the ground versus a new ceasefire to
release
hostages
well the bring them back Campaign which
is the umbrella organization that
represents the captives families has got
a lot of influence in this country he's
got a lot of influence amongst public
opinion it's a lot of sympathy for those
families of the captives uh but they've
been very clear they're pushing for a
ceasefire now for days they've been
asking for a meeting with prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and the war cabinet
that hasn't happened but a breakthrough
just a few hours ago they you to meet
with the war cabinet and that'll include
the defense minister as well you have
glant um at around about 8:00 local time
and that's where they're going to push
their case this is now direct pressure
that the families are going to put on
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu but
Netanyahu and the war cabinet are in a
difficult position Hamas now say that
they have Israeli military soldiers in
captivity uh and those they going to
negotiate a lot harder than they did for
example over the Israeli civilians that
they held in captivity so whether we can
see a truce like we did before a
ceasefire like we did before um is
unclear because Hamas are very clear in
what they want they want a almost they
want a permanent uh ceasefire in return
for those particular hostages Imran Khan
reporting from Tel Aviv thank you very
much Imran